Product Mindset
A product mindset is a holistic approach to delivering value for customers — prioritizing continuous evolution, data-driven decisions, and customer delight.
Let’s discuss various aspects which governs the product mindset.

Understanding Business and Customer (working backwards): -
Understanding business or customer will clear WHY, WHAT and HOW of the product. This is the starting point of product building. AMAZON is one of the best examples of customer obsession.

Requirements and Prioritization: -
This includes how one can put high level ideas into requirements in a logical way.  Defining complexity and prioritizing requirements also comes under this aspect. 
Sometimes, one needs to go beyond what is just in front of your eyes. One has to put requirements in simple words considering the population related with it.

Design Thinking on Product Development: -
This includes that given a few broad parameters, design a solution to a problem or a product for a purpose. This can be done by following approach.
o	Empathize: Familiarize yourself with the end user to find out what needs are not being met
o	Define: Re-state the needs into a problem statement that you will solve
o	Ideate: Generate many possible solutions to the problem; brainstorm
o	Prototype: Choose one idea to actually create, and make a “rough draft”
o	Test: Gather feedback from the end user, and repeat any earlier steps to refine your product

Non-Functional Requirements: -
Functional requirement is all about what the system should do, but Non-Functional Requirements speaks about how the system should do it. 

Engineering Values: -
Engineering values are largely influenced by the leadership included product development. Leadership is an everyday way of acting and thinking that it has little to do with a title or formal position in an organization.

Better Communication, Better Growth: -
Better Communication shows one’s self awareness and influencing power. It can help in better understanding of requirement which eventually helps in solution building. 

This quote describes product mindset in a subtle way
“A wise man can learn more from a foolish question than a fool can learn from a wise answer.”
-Bruce Lee



